It is important to understand that dynamic components in general just means that
you want to
display some component dynamically,
which means it's not always there but it's there once
something specific happens in your code.
Therefore, you typically want to control programmatically when that component should be loaded, when it
should be displayed and you already learned about a way of doing that
and we're currently using that way and that way is ngIf. ngIf is awesome because it allows you to
use a declarative approach, which means you simply add that component selector in your template and then
you use ngIf to still only load it upon a certain condition, so you use ngIf to control whether
the DOM really has that component or not and therefore ngIf definitely is a great approach of loading
a component dynamically.
It saves you a lot of extra work which you will have to do with the alternative approach you're about
to learn and it's definitely worth a thought and has no major downsides
and at the moment as I mentioned, we are using ngIf here in this project, we're using it in many
places and we're also using it for this alert box and I'll show you how to finish the entire alert flow
before we then have a look at that alternative.
Nonetheless, what would be the alternative?
The alternative is that you use something which in the past was named dynamic component loader.
Now this was a helper utility that doesn't exist anymore or that you shouldn't use anymore but in the
end, it's now about a general concept you could say of creating a component in code and then manually
attaching it to the DOM.
So there, you have to control, in your code by yourself, how that component is instantiated, that data is
passed into it and also that it is removed.
So everything ngIf does for you,
you have to do on your own there. Still,
this approach can be useful,
it also of course allows you to control it entirely from code and you don't have to touch the template.
Sometimes you might not want to do that or you have no real way of adding the component to the template
and therefore, this is also an interesting approach.
Now we'll have a look at both here,
we started with ngIf, let's finish it up with that approach before we then dive into creating
components and managing components from code.